historically the US Navy has been a
powerful mobile symbol of a nation and
its allies has played a leading role in
keeping the peace in today's cold war
environment the striking forces of the
Navy have by their very presence become
one of the world's most vital deterrence
to all-out war they're growing global
responsibilities are carried out with
many types of vessels weapons and
aircraft but one of the most versatile
is a plane distinguished by its long Air
Force tour of duty but perhaps lesser
known for its activities with the Navy
the c-130 Hercules skilled crews of
squadron vx6
flying the LC 130th ski equipped
hercules have set new aviation records
as they maintain an aerial lifeline to
our scientific efforts in antarctica
weighing 67 tons fully pressurized and
heated the ski 130s and learn AV crews
have nearly completed their conquest of
the last and most treacherous frontier
on earth by annually air lifting almost
10 million pounds of supplies in support
of our scientific research stations at
the bottom of the world vx6 has made
significant advances in polar flight
knowledge and made antarctica almost as
accessible as the rest of the world
and adding to the versatility and
mobility of the Navy Marine Corps team
is another version of the Hercules the
kc-130 F tanker a combination in-flight
refueling and transport aircraft it is
completely compatible with the fastest
of modern-day jet fighters it's 600
gallon per minute refueling capacity
coupled with long-range ability allows
the combat ready reach of the Navy
Marine striking force to span any ocean
in the world but perhaps the most
dramatic use for the Hercules was
recently demonstrated on the deck of the
USS Forrestal during a series of tests
exploring the feasibility of c-130
carrier operations after a short period
of c-130 training which simulated
carrier operations to naval pilots the
Jenna James flatly and Lieutenant
Commander W Stovall accomplished the
first Hercules on deck carrier landings
in a c-130 F a transport version of the
kc-130 F marine tanker with the external
pods removed although both men were
excellent carrier pilots neither had
ever flown a four-engine aircraft before
however with the easy handling Hercules
they proceeded to achieve a total of 29
touch-and-go and 21 unarrested full-stop
landings and unassisted takeoffs
touch-and-go landings were made from the
650 foot angle deck actual takeoffs and
landings were made from the axial deck
900 feet long
however since topping distances in all
tests were under 605 feet it was
apparent that all landings could have
been performed on the shorter angle deck
if necessary as the Hercules turned two
tests proceeded at gross weights up to
121 vowels in pounds allowing a payload
of 22,000 pounds to be landed on the
angle deck or 30,000 pounds on the axial
deck neither the carrier nor the
Hercules required any major alterations
for the tests the aircraft received only
minor changes such as installation of a
mark to fully modulated anti-skid system
which permitted a 10% shorter landing
role a smaller orifice in the nose
landing gear helped to reduce impact on
landing carrier changes involved only
removal of deck cables from a painting
of a white line the length of the axial
deck to provide directional guidance to
the pilot piloting technique was found
to be nearly normal and because of its
excellent acceleration deceleration and
control the c-130s flying
characteristics were generally
compatible to carrier operations
landings were made within 50 feet of the
end of the deck and all performance was
calculated from that point out on each
landing the signal officer gave the
pilot an engine cut signal when the
aircraft was about four feet off the
deck the throttles were immediately
pulled into reverse position allowing
the propellers to be in reverse by the
time the wheels hit the deck thus
considerably shortening the landing roll
takeoff technique called for
full power on with brakes applied along
the deck the pilot handled the throttles
and the nose wheel steering for
directional control the copilot handled
the control wheel keeping wings level
during takeoff as the aircraft reached
actual rotation speed the pilot took
over the control wheel completing the
takeoff the c-130 of course was not
designed for carrier on deck landings
and it's rate of sync was expected to be
its weakest point in this type of
operation however the average shipboard
sync speed during all tests was only 5.2
feet per second a real surprise since
the c-130 can go up to an 11 point two
foot per second sink rate although naval
carrier planes are usually designed for
a sink rate of 22 feet per second the
c-130s unique ability to land a payload
of 22,000 to 30,000 pounds made up of
anything from fighter aircraft engines
and parts to whole helicopters onto the
deck of a carrier any place in the world
can only extend the striking arm and add
to the mobility and versatility
you